# Satellite Pattern-of-Life Identification Challenge Starter Toolkit

## Heuristic-based baseline
The heuristic-based baseline notebook `heuristic_baseline.ipynb` provides an example on using data heuristics to identify and characterize satellite pattern-of-life nodes.

The heuristic-based baseline is consturcted based on the Satellite Node Identification and Classification Tool (SNICT). SNICT characterizes the station-keeping and propulsion features of a satellite's PoL by tracking changes in the satellite's longitude and inclination waveforms. These changes are identified from variations in the standard deviation per orbital period of the waveform. SNICT examines the value of this localized standard deviation at each two-hour timestep within the six-month study period and detects events when this value crosses a static threshold---chosen to reflect the most commonly observed maximum value exhibited by typical station-keeping behavioral modes.

A low-to-high crossing indicates a potential initiate drift (ID) node, suggesting that the satellite has transitioned from a station-keeping behavioral mode to a drifting behavioral mode. Conversely, high-to-low crossings indicate potential initiate station-keeping (IK) nodes where the satellite has entered a station-keeping behavioral mode after a transitional (non-station-keeping) mode---such as a period of natural drift. An additional adjust drift (AD) node type is detected for the in-track direction when the local standard deviation of the longitude waveform changes by more than 10% during a transitional behavioral mode. When all potential nodes within the study period are identified, they are filtered for false detections resulting from transient noise.

The propulsion features of any station-keeping behavioral modes are characterized after node-detection has concluded. Since SNICT does not detect or characterize individual maneuvers, the propulsion type is assigned by a function of the longitude's non-localized standard deviation and the size of its deadband between the bounding IK and ID nodes. In-track and cross-track station-keeping is always assumed to utilize the same propulsion type.